README.md, before:

# EasyOps - DevOps Management Tool

A cross-platform DevOps tool for managing Jenkins builds and AWS ECS services with simplified authentication and environment switching.

## 🚀 Quick Start with Docker

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop installed ([Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/))
- AWS CLI configured with SAML2AWS profiles

### 🖥️ Windows Setup

1. **Clone or download the project**
2. **Ensure you have AWS profiles configured**:
   ```cmd
   # Verify your AWS profiles are set up
   aws configure list-profiles
   ```

3. **Run with Docker Compose**:
   ```cmd
   # Navigate to project directory
   cd path\to\EasyOps
   
   # Build and start the application
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**: Open http://localhost:5000

### 🍎 Mac Setup

1. **Clone or download the project**
2. **Ensure you have AWS profiles configured**:
   ```bash
   # Verify your AWS profiles are set up
   aws configure list-profiles
   ```

3. **Run with Docker Compose**:
   ```bash
   # Navigate to project directory
   cd /path/to/EasyOps
   
   # Build and start the application
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**: Open http://localhost:5000

## 📋 Manual Docker Commands

If you prefer not to use docker-compose:

### Build the image:
```bash
docker build -t easyops .
```

### Run the container:

**Windows:**
```cmd
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -v %USERPROFILE%\.aws:/home/dotnet/.aws:ro --name easyops-app easyops
```

**Mac/Linux:**
```bash
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -v ~/.aws:/home/dotnet/.aws:ro --name easyops-app easyops
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### AWS Profiles
The application expects AWS profiles to be configured via SAML2AWS:

```bash
# Example profile setup
saml2aws configure --profile dev
saml2aws configure --profile stg  
saml2aws configure --profile prd
```

### Environment Configuration
The application will use the `appsettings.json` for default configuration. In Docker, it uses `appsettings.Docker.json` which includes all AWS environment configurations. You can override settings by mounting custom configuration files:

```yaml
# In docker-compose.yml
volumes:
  - ./custom-appsettings.Docker.json:/app/appsettings.Docker.json:ro
```

## 🛠️ Features

- **🔐 Manual SAML2AWS Authentication**: Clear instructions for AWS authentication
- **🔄 Environment Switching**: Easy switching between dev/staging/production
- **📦 ECS Service Management**: View and manage ECS cluster services
- **🏗️ Jenkins Integration**: Build management and monitoring
- **📊 Clean Interface**: Simplified service names and focused information
- **📤 Data Export**: Export service information to CSV

## 🚪 Ports

- **Application**: http://localhost:5000

## 📝 Usage

1. **Start the application** using Docker
2. **Authenticate with AWS**: Follow the manual SAML2AWS instructions in the app
3. **Switch environments** using the environment selector
4. **Manage ECS services** and Jenkins builds through the web interface

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
```bash
# Check logs
docker logs easyops-app

# Verify AWS credentials are mounted
docker exec -it easyops-app ls -la /home/dotnet/.aws
```

### AWS credentials not working
```bash
# Refresh your SAML2AWS session
saml2aws login --profile stg

# Verify profiles exist
aws configure list-profiles
```

### Permission issues on Mac
```bash
# Ensure Docker has access to your home directory
# Go to Docker Desktop > Settings > Resources > File Sharing
# Add your home directory if not already included
```

## 🛑 Stopping the Application

```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose down

# Using direct docker commands
docker stop easyops-app
docker rm easyops-app
```

## 📋 System Requirements

- **Docker Desktop** (Windows/Mac)
- **4GB RAM** minimum
- **AWS CLI** with SAML2AWS configured
- **Network access** to AWS services and Jenkins instances

## 🔒 Security Notes

- AWS credentials are mounted read-only into the container
- The application runs as a non-root user inside the container
- No sensitive data is stored in the Docker image
- HTTPS redirection is disabled in development mode

## 🤝 Sharing with Team

To share this with colleagues:

1. **Package the project**: Zip the entire EasyOps folder
2. **Share Docker setup**: Include this README
3. **Document your AWS profiles**: List the required profile names
4. **Test on their machines**: Verify Docker setup works

## 💡 Tips

- Keep AWS credentials refreshed with `saml2aws login`
- Use `docker-compose logs -f` to monitor application logs
- The application automatically detects environment changes
- Service names are automatically simplified for better readability

EasyOps is a .NET web application designed to simplify day-to-day tasks related to Jenkins and AWS. The initial version provides a simple UI with two tabs—Jenkins and AWS—each displaying placeholder content for future features.

## Features
- Simple web UI with two tabs: Jenkins and AWS
- Ready for local development and future deployment
- Extensible for Jenkins and AWS integrations

## Getting Started
1. Ensure you have .NET SDK installed.
2. Build and run the application locally.
3. Use the Jenkins and AWS tabs to access features (to be implemented).

## Future Plans
- Add Jenkins integration features
- Add AWS integration features
- Enhance UI and deploy to cloud

Commit message:

Add replay feature and MCP server integration
Introduce a new replay feature for game events, including database models, API endpoints, and a user interface. Implement a new MCP server for natural language control of Jenkins builds. Update project structure to include shared libraries and new services. Modify configuration files to support these changes. Add documentation for setup and usage of new features. Update `JenkinsController.cs` to use placeholders for deployment info and enhance `GetPipelineInfo`. Update `EasyOps.csproj` and `EasyOps.sln` for new packages and projects. Add new migration files for database schema updates.

README.md, after:

# EasyOps - DevOps Management Tool

A cross-platform DevOps tool for managing Jenkins builds and AWS ECS services with simplified authentication and environment switching.

## 🤖 NEW: MCP Server for Natural Language Control

EasyOps now includes an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) server** that lets you control Jenkins builds using natural language through GitHub Copilot, Claude, or any MCP-compatible client!

**Example commands:**
- "Build AFL pricer"
- "Check the status of RL orchestrator"  
- "Deploy AFL pricer version 1.2.3 to dev"

**[📖 See the MCP Server Setup Guide](MCP-SERVER-GUIDE.md)**

---

## 🚀 Quick Start with Docker

### Prerequisites
- Docker Desktop installed ([Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) | [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/))
- AWS CLI configured with SAML2AWS profiles

### 🖥️ Windows Setup

1. **Clone or download the project**
2. **Ensure you have AWS profiles configured**:
   ```cmd
   # Verify your AWS profiles are set up
   aws configure list-profiles
   ```

3. **Run with Docker Compose**:
   ```cmd
   # Navigate to project directory
   cd path\to\EasyOps
   
   # Build and start the application
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**: Open http://localhost:5000

### 🍎 Mac Setup

1. **Clone or download the project**
2. **Ensure you have AWS profiles configured**:
   ```bash
   # Verify your AWS profiles are set up
   aws configure list-profiles
   ```

3. **Run with Docker Compose**:
   ```bash
   # Navigate to project directory
   cd /path/to/EasyOps
   
   # Build and start the application
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

4. **Access the application**: Open http://localhost:5000

## 📋 Manual Docker Commands

If you prefer not to use docker-compose:

### Build the image:
```bash
docker build -t easyops .
```

### Run the container:

**Windows:**
```cmd
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -v %USERPROFILE%\.aws:/home/dotnet/.aws:ro --name easyops-app easyops
```

**Mac/Linux:**
```bash
docker run -d -p 5000:5000 -v ~/.aws:/home/dotnet/.aws:ro --name easyops-app easyops
```

## 🔧 Configuration

### AWS Profiles
The application expects AWS profiles to be configured via SAML2AWS:

```bash
# Example profile setup
saml2aws configure --profile dev
saml2aws configure --profile stg  
saml2aws configure --profile prd
```

### Environment Configuration
The application will use the `appsettings.json` for default configuration. In Docker, it uses `appsettings.Docker.json` which includes all AWS environment configurations. You can override settings by mounting custom configuration files:

```yaml
# In docker-compose.yml
volumes:
  - ./custom-appsettings.Docker.json:/app/appsettings.Docker.json:ro
```

## 🛠️ Features

- **🔐 Manual SAML2AWS Authentication**: Clear instructions for AWS authentication
- **🔄 Environment Switching**: Easy switching between dev/staging/production
- **📦 ECS Service Management**: View and manage ECS cluster services
- **🏗️ Jenkins Integration**: Build management and monitoring
- **📊 Clean Interface**: Simplified service names and focused information
- **📤 Data Export**: Export service information to CSV

## 🚪 Ports

- **Application**: http://localhost:5000

## 📝 Usage

1. **Start the application** using Docker
2. **Authenticate with AWS**: Follow the manual SAML2AWS instructions in the app
3. **Switch environments** using the environment selector
4. **Manage ECS services** and Jenkins builds through the web interface

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
```bash
# Check logs
docker logs easyops-app

# Verify AWS credentials are mounted
docker exec -it easyops-app ls -la /home/dotnet/.aws
```

### AWS credentials not working
```bash
# Refresh your SAML2AWS session
saml2aws login --profile stg

# Verify profiles exist
aws configure list-profiles
```

### Permission issues on Mac
```bash
# Ensure Docker has access to your home directory
# Go to Docker Desktop > Settings > Resources > File Sharing
# Add your home directory if not already included
```

## 🛑 Stopping the Application

```bash
# Using docker-compose
docker-compose down

# Using direct docker commands
docker stop easyops-app
docker rm easyops-app
```

## 📋 System Requirements

- **Docker Desktop** (Windows/Mac)
- **4GB RAM** minimum
- **AWS CLI** with SAML2AWS configured
- **Network access** to AWS services and Jenkins instances

## 🔒 Security Notes

- AWS credentials are mounted read-only into the container
- The application runs as a non-root user inside the container
- No sensitive data is stored in the Docker image
- HTTPS redirection is disabled in development mode

## 🤝 Sharing with Team

To share this with colleagues:

1. **Package the project**: Zip the entire EasyOps folder
2. **Share Docker setup**: Include this README
3. **Document your AWS profiles**: List the required profile names
4. **Test on their machines**: Verify Docker setup works

## 💡 Tips

- Keep AWS credentials refreshed with `saml2aws login`
- Use `docker-compose logs -f` to monitor application logs
- The application automatically detects environment changes
- Service names are automatically simplified for better readability

EasyOps is a .NET web application designed to simplify day-to-day tasks related to Jenkins and AWS. The initial version provides a simple UI with two tabs—Jenkins and AWS—each displaying placeholder content for future features.

## Features
- Simple web UI with two tabs: Jenkins and AWS
- Ready for local development and future deployment
- Extensible for Jenkins and AWS integrations

## Getting Started
1. Ensure you have .NET SDK installed.
2. Build and run the application locally.
3. Use the Jenkins and AWS tabs to access features (to be implemented).

## Future Plans
- Add Jenkins integration features
- Add AWS integration features
- Enhance UI and deploy to cloud
